.github/instructions/efcore.specs.instructions.md, before:

```instructions
---
applyTo: "**/for_*/**/*.cs, **/when_*/**/*.cs"
---

# How to write Entity Framework Core Specs

- Use Sqlite in-memory database for specs (tests) that involve `DbContext` operations. This allows for lightweight and fast testing without the need for a full database setup.
- Ensure that the in-memory database is properly configured and disposed of after each test to avoid state leakage between tests.
- When writing specs (tests) for units that leverage a `DbContext` or a derivative of it, remember that methods like `SaveChanges` or `SaveChangesAsync` are virtual and can be mocked.
- Simulating failure on a `DbContext` operation can be achieved by mocking these methods to throw exceptions, allowing you to test error handling and recovery logic in your specs.
- `DbSet` has most of its methods as virtual, which means you can mock them as needed for your tests.
- A `DbContext` needs options passed into its constructor. When mocking with NSubstitute you simply pass the options when substituting it, e.g., `Substitute.For<YourDbContext>(options)`.

```

Commit message:

Refactor vertical slice prompts and skills for clarity and consistency
- Updated new-vertical-slice prompt to streamline the order of artifacts and clarify the use of attributes.
- Revised write-specs prompt to specify DCB pattern for business rule violations.
- Enhanced add-business-rule skill to emphasize DCB pattern and clarify usage of constraints.
- Improved add-projection skill to prioritize model-bound projections and clarify attribute usage.
- Updated review-code and review-performance skills to reflect changes in projection handling.
- Refined examples in write-specs to align with new command and event structures.
- Adjusted naming conventions and validation checks in spec examples for better clarity.

.github/instructions/efcore.specs.instructions.md, after:

---
applyTo: "**/for_*/**/*.cs, **/when_*/**/*.cs"
---

# Entity Framework Core Specs

EF Core specs verify database interaction logic — migrations, queries, and error handling. They use SQLite in-memory databases, which are fast, isolated, and disposable. This keeps specs independent of any real database server.

These specs are for code that interacts directly with `DbContext`. For event-sourcing integration specs (testing commands against Chronicle), use the Chronicle integration spec pattern in [specs.csharp.instructions.md](./specs.csharp.instructions.md) instead.

## Database Setup

- Use SQLite in-memory database for all `DbContext` specs — it's fast and each spec gets a clean database.
- Configure and dispose the in-memory database properly to avoid state leakage between tests. Each spec run should start with a fresh schema.

## Mocking DbContext

- `SaveChanges()` and `SaveChangesAsync()` are virtual — mock with NSubstitute.
- `DbSet<T>` methods are virtual — mock as needed.
- Pass options when substituting: `Substitute.For<YourDbContext>(options)`.

```csharp
var options = new DbContextOptionsBuilder<YourDbContext>()
    .UseSqlite("DataSource=:memory:")
    .Options;

var context = Substitute.For<YourDbContext>(options);
```

## Simulating Failures

Mock `SaveChanges` / `SaveChangesAsync` to throw exceptions for testing error handling and recovery:

```csharp
context.SaveChangesAsync(Arg.Any<CancellationToken>())
    .Throws(new DbUpdateException("Simulated failure"));
```
